+++
title = "Labour Market Insecurity and Generalized Trust in Welfare State Context"
date = 2017-01-24
draft = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Christoph Nguyen"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference paper
# 2 = Journal article
# 3 = Manuscript
# 4 = Report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book section
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "European Sociological Review, Volume 33, Issue 2, 1 April 2017,  "
publication_short = "European Sociological Review"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "How does labour market insecurity influence generalized social trust? And what role does the welfare state play in moderating this relationship? While the widespread impact of labour market insecurity has become increasingly recognized, its effect on workers’ social attitudes remains under-explored. In particular, little is known about the influence that job insecurity has on generalized social trust. Understanding the relationship between employment insecurity and social trust is important not only because reductions in trust can have important downstream consequences, but also because trust is in itself an important resource for dealing with periods of uncertainty. Investigating the relationship between labour market insecurity and trust also opens up a new perspective on the relationship between welfare states and trust. Social policies such as unemployment benefits and active labour market policies insulate workers from the effects of insecurity, lessening the effect of insecurity on trust. The interaction between individual insecurity, national unemployment support, and social trust attitudes thus provides a new perspective on the often posited link between trust and welfare states. Using multi-level modelling, this article addresses both questions directly. Combining data from the first six waves of the European Social Survey with measures of workers’ labour market insecurity, this article demonstrates that labour market insecurity does has a strong and persistent negative effect on social trust. Moreover, by embedding individual workers in national contexts, this article also shows that social policy can play an important role in alleviating the strain of insecurity on trust."
abstract_short = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter your project's filename without extension.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects = []

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = ["Populism","Anti-Elite Politics","Political Efficacy","Economic Insecurity"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "https://doi.org/10.1093/esr/jcw058"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does this page contain LaTeX math? (true/false)
math = false

# Does this page require source code highlighting? (true/false)
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
